My name is Jason Weber, and my job is to make Internet Explorer fast.
We care about Windows users, and Windows users spend over half their time inside the web browser.
We want those users to have a great experience
and that means performance.
Regularly on any given day we will measure the performance of IE hundreds of times
typically using thousands of different tests
which results in anywhere from five to six million plus different metrics that we end up analysing.
We think about it in three different ways
the first is we wanna make the web sites that customers use today extremely fast
so your traditional browsing scenarios
the second class is that we want to make the interactive AJAX applications
that the customers use every day extremely responsive
and the third class is really the HTML5 applications of tomorrow
and enabling the next generation of the web.
In order to measure the performance of the browser
we sorta had to build our own version of the internet
Both replicating different network topologies, different server configurations,
as well as different client configurations and measuring anything from memory usage to CPU utilization, elapsed time,
that end users see and really try to get a representative sample
of what customers will see in their real world experience replicated in this lab.
Benchmarks can be a very good way to measure performance.
However, if they are are representative of what actual users are doing
so if you have a small isolated benchmark it can be great for a subsystem
but it is not so great to represent what the real world users are doing.
Performance is a multidimensional problem
and Javascript is only one of the eleven subsystems in the browser
that impact performance
With Internet Explorer 9 though we completely rearchitected our Javascript engine
so that applications that make heavy use of Javascript are extremely fast.
So we're optimizing for a wide range of machines. From things like the netbook over here
to high end desktops with eight cores, lots of memory
and we really wanna have that be a great experience across that range.
Today's web browsers really haven't taken advantage of the full modern PC hardware
and you're really limited to what developers can do inside their web applications.
With Internet Explorer 9 we're unlocking the full power of the PC
and enabling web developers the potential that native application developers have had for the past two decades.
Our approach for graphics in IE9 has been to accelerate everything.
Text rendering, graphics rendering, colors on background images, I mean
really everything in IE9 that you see on the screen
is powered and displayed through the GPU
As we move into the future with vector graphics technology, whether it's canvas or SVG
In IE9 those are also all hardware accelerated
and as people employ those you should see much better performance than you would have
had we not used the GPU.
With Internet Explorer 9, the web pages that you browse to every day just got a whole lot faster
and the HTML5 applications of tomorrow
are now possible.
I think long term what GPU accelerated graphics
and coupled with the other performance improvements
it changes what you can do
Things don't change overnight in the world anymore
Not even on the web
But you look two years out and I think people will wonder what a browser was like without GPU acceleration.